what began as a single food cart in
Madison Square Park in New York City is
now a modern-day burger chain known for
their delicious burgers and today we're
going to make the original Shake Shack
burger
join us on get the dish where we find
out the secrets behind signature dishes
from famous chefs and eateries and show
you how to recreate them at home Shake
Shack is known to have lines lasting
over an hour just to get one of their
Shack burgers the juicy flavorful and
cheesy burger all starts with the meat
now we're using three types of meat for
this burger sirloin chuck and brisket
now you can get this at your grocery
store and most butchers will grind it
for you if it's not already grinded
ground sirloin is a leaner cut of meat
it's better than using standard ground
beef and it offers a certain tenderness
to the burger ground chuck which is the
most popular comes from the shoulder and
neck of the cow it has an immense amount
of flavor and then brisket really just
has this dynamite big hearty flavor so
I'm gonna give these a little mix make
sure they're all mixed together and then
I'm just gonna get right in there with
my hands and form it into a disc you
want it about two inches high and two
and a half inches wide it should really
kind of mirror a hockey puck I always
use this part for two inches so I still
got to keep going and then just flatten
the top perfect I'm just gonna place
this in the fridge and let it set while
we toast our buns the Shake Shack uses
Martin sandwich rolls now if you can't
find these you must use potato rolls
they're squishy and soft and have a
distinct sweetness and they're also the
perfect vehicle for soaking up the Shake
Shack sauce now I'm just going to
lightly butter each side of the bun and
then we're going to toast it until it's
nice and golden brown right into our
skillet the secret sauce is really what
makes this a Shake Shack burger and not
just a regular cheese burger super
simple to make into a food processor I'm
just gonna put our half a cup of
mayonnaise 1 tablespoon of ketchup a
tablespoon of yellow mustard about 4
slices of kosher dill pickle 1/4
teaspoon of garlic powder and 1/4
teaspoon of paprika
and just a little pinch of cayenne
pepper and then we're just gonna blend
this up until it's nice and smooth there
we go that secret sauce this is really
where the magic happens all right let's
take a look at our buns oh yeah nice and
golden-brown great now let's make the
burger what makes the Shake Shack burger
so different is the hard crunchy crust
on the outside of the patty this is a
special technique that I'm going to show
you so I put a little bit of oil in the
bottom of my skillet and I placed it on
a medium-high heat you want to wait
until right before it begins to smoke
and then I'm gonna season our patty with
salt and pepper and then I'm going to
place it seasoned side down right into
the skillet and then using the back of
the spatula I'm gonna press down on the
beef puff you really want to smash it
down this is what's gonna help get that
nice thick crust great and then I'm the
seasoned this side of the patty with a
little bit of salt and pepper we're
gonna cook this for about two minutes
until a crisp Brown crust is formed then
we're going to flip it over and add our
cheese and cook for another minute look
at that nice brown crust that's exactly
what we want now I'm going to put our
American cheese right on top and then
leave it in the skillet for about a
minute or until your cheese has melted
all right it's time to assemble our
burger so I'm just going to place this
patty with the cheese onto my bottom bun
now I'm just going to put the sauce
which I put into a squeeze bottle I'm
just going to drizzle it right across
just like they do at Shake Shack then
I'm going to put our two slices of ripe
plum tomato and a piece of green leafy
lettuce
I'm gonna top it with the top bun oh
yeah oh this burger is really something
else I mean from the crust on the patty
and then that sweet sour slightly hot
sauce oh I cannot wait to just bite into
this mmm oh my god
I feel like I'm in New York City right
now this is so good I can certainly see
why people wait hours to get one of
these YUM I'm Randy thanks so much for
watching I'll see you next time we get
the dish on pop sugar